are text messages stored by the phone company follow question1 great question asked by hobbes  7355  october 11th 2010are the text messages i send and receive stored anywhere other than my phone are they on a database somewhere if so who would be able to read them share question flag ascell phones privacy text messaging smsobserving members 0 composing members 018 answer s yes in fact you’re entitled to copies of them if you would like so i’m told… axemusica  9465 “great answer”  2  flag as… ¶the phone company keeps a copy on it’s server so that it can resend the message if the mobile is switched off or out of range i’ve no idea how long it keeps the mesages but given that there were over 4 trillion texts sent in 2008 alone i doubt they keep them for that long lightlyseared  30595 “great answer”  2  flag as… ¶yes and the police can get a warrant for them if you are suspected of a crime and there is evidencemarinelife  61974 “great answer”  1  flag as… ¶can they view the content of the messages or just the date and time viewing content seems like quite a breach of privacy to me hobbes  7355 “great answer”  1  flag as… ¶lightlyseared considering the average text message can probably be compressed to less than 100 bytes the phone companies could easily store the messages in a small server room also not one company stores all the texts vortico  3123 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶hobbes i’m pretty sure the content can be viewed since a lot of terrorist activity is communicated by textjanbb  52040 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶i am not a lawyer a prudent consumer should not have any expectation of privacy with any electronic communication whether text email or im you’re going through one or two third parties your wireless companieszenvelo  31515 “great answer”  2  flag as… ¶not only are they stored the security services could already have scanned them for ‘flaggable’ content especially if you are of interest to them using the echelon systemmeiosis  6463 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶janbb – just another reason why the patriot act allows for some sickening breaches of personal privacy meiosis – as terrifying as that is it doesn’t actually mention text messages it says “every international telephone call fax email or radio transmission can be listened to by powerful computers capable of voice recognition”vortico – but considering the sheer volume of texts which have been sent since texting became prevalent could the providers really be storing every text indefinitely hobbes  7355 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶hobbes i don’t disagree with you at alljanbb  52040 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶hobbes i don’t think it’s too much of a leap to assume that they’ll monitor texts twitter facebook etc as wellmeiosis  6463 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶well the article said they were monitoring satellites not the internet hobbes  7355 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶yes they can store and recall the content of your text messagesmarinelife  61974 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶holy shit they do what about people who are always sexting – the phone company reads those msgsnailpolishfanatic  6612 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶thesexier they don’t read them they just store them for later if a legal case comes up then they read them vortico  3123 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶hobbes the article was written in 1999 given the massive expansion in internet and mobile communication since then it’s simply inconceivable that they’re not monitoring these as well i know they would if i were in chargemeiosis  6463 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶vortico  oh okayy pnailpolishfanatic  6612 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶ya so don’t be suspected of any crime or all your private messages will be read in the interest of justice lol what a pathetic society zaku  20508 “great answer”  0  flag as… ¶answer this question loginor jointo answer this question is in the general section responses must be helpful and ontopic your answer will be saved while you login or join