home recruiting 7 tips to become a successful recruiter7 tips to become a successful recruiter5 years ago by maria tannehill  18being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of careerminded driven moneymotivated and competitive professionals the world of recruiting is full of endless opportunities doors flying open and fulfilling success that you could have never imagined perhaps you want to travel the world build a family or maybe you want to become a subject matterexpert in something you are passionate about premium content recruiting with cloud and semantic search technologies what makes a good recruiter as recruiters we are gregarious assertive and curious by nature a recruiter is essentially a sales person — presenting top talent to leading organizations who are looking for the missing piece of their puzzle one of our top recruiters in the big data space describes it best her candidates are so rare she often refers to “finding a unicorn” when she identifies the perfect fit for a role if you are strong willed and personable with a passion to succeed then you have what it takes to get started in the world of recruitment there is no exact formula for success as a recruiter it takes hard work dedication to your industry and of course you have to earn it if you are looking to jump start your career in the recruitment industry here are some quick tips to land your first job1 become a sourcer an entrylevel position at a staffing firm will allow you to shadow a recruiter in the area you would like to recruit for and learn the style that works for you this position will allow you to master the basics of screening resumes conducting phone interviews and shadowing the client interview process2 network on linked in with likeminded people join groups relevant to your education interests and geographical region maximizing the number of groups you are in will also maximize your network and you will be able to view and connect with more professionals who are relevant to your desired career path many people post available positions to their alumni groups and you then have a direct contact regarding the position3 attend as many networking events as possible while linked in and career pages make it much easier to apply and learn more about available positions nothing replaces the power of an inperson intro and exchange of business cards stay up on your local events via a variety of organizations wwwmeetupcom  wwweventbitecom  wwwbizjournalscom4 market yourself with your resume as a sell sheet your resume is undoubtedly a place to sell your work history but also a place to sell yourself how many job seekers are “organized” break the mold and showcase your expertise and your personality to really stand out to an employer5 pick up the phone following up with a phone call after you submit an application will ensure that you are staying front of mind and aren’t throwing your resume into cyber space6 ask for help you might not know everything about getting into the recruitment industry ask questions of people you know who are familiar with the industry as well as friends of friends who might be able to get in touch with the right person7 do your homework research companies that have good reputations and are known for hiring people new to the industry lots of people have gotten their start in recruiting through agencies that are willing to train employees without recruitment experience8 summarize yourself in 30 seconds or less have an elevator pitch – know what you want be able to quickly describe it and go after it if you want in then get inmore recruiter’s anatomy how to identify and train top performers tags featured recruiting recruiting skills staffing industry recruiting maria tannehill maria tannehill is an internal recruiter at greythorn she can be reached at maria dot tannehill at greythorn dot com get updates subscribe to our email newsletter to receive updates share this post related articles no consent no processing the myth of gdprhelping women advance in the workplace successfully integrating international nurses into your staff how to approach a client about a pay rate that is too low the benefits of executive coaching18 responses to “7 tips to become a successful recruiter”tarheelnation666march 19 2016 at 1112 pm working with a recruiting agency is a great way to get into the workplace and experience a job it would be very tragic to get into the workplace and later find out you don’t enjoy that job yet have no other outlets this is why i would suggest temp or internships once you are set on a career path recruiting agencies can provide the help you need to succeed in the workplace and find the job of your dreams concentrated efforts will allow you to find the career you have always sought afterhttpprofessionalrecruiterinccom reply recruiter staffing  information  best job subscriptions january 18 2016 at 340 pm … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply recruiter staffing  qualified job starters january 17 2016 at 947 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply recruiter or staffing  search  find a startup job january 16 2016 at 403 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing … – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply how to be a successfull recruiter for the military  best  jobs with best salaries january 14 2016 at 554 pm … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing … – … article in the staffing stream offers seven tips toward becoming a successful recruiter – what would you add to the list when it … …reply how do i become a staffing recruiter  hot job vacancies january 13 2016 at 1020 pm … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing … – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply successful recruiter  jobs  jobs with best salaries january 9 2016 at 1133 pm … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply how be a successful recruiter  salaries  jobs with best salaries january 8 2016 at 240 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing … – … article in the staffing stream offers seven tips toward becoming a successful recruiter – what would you add to the list when it … …reply recruiter staffing  finder  part time job finder january 3 2016 at 136 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply how be a successful recruiter  start your carreer january 1 2016 at 830 pm … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing … – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply one become a recruiter  hot job vacancies december 20 2015 at 410 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply how to become an international college recruiter  starter  no experience jobs december 19 2015 at 1205 am … 7 tips to become a successful recruiter  the staffing stream – being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of … …reply7 tips to become a successful recruiter  home business blogs june 4 2015 at 738 pm … davis pr comments click here website httpwwwthestaffingstreamcom201305307tipstobecomeasuccessfulrecruiter article tag s 7 tips to become a successful recruiter being a …reply top 5 recruiting agencies in winnipeg  navut blog january 22 2015 at 1153 am … linked in in pursuit of hire knowledge linked in the staffing stream college candy …reply ryan lum may 5 2014 at 1105 am nicely said maria reply zeina issa march 24 2014 at 605 am the biggest challengecompanies face when recruiting talent is not the recruiting itself but the engagement and retention after that read more httpgooglfzat xf reply7 tips to become a successful recruiter  human september 11 2013 at 652 am … being a recruiter allows you the freedom to be creative in your profession many recruiters love their jobs because they build a world around them — a world of careerminded driven moneymotivated and competitive professionals …reply how the military can school you in recruiting  recruiting roundup and defense industry hiring news  defense  intelligence news june 3 2013 at 432 pm … article in the staffing stream offers seven tips toward becoming a successful recruiter – what would you add to the list when it …reply leave a reply name requiredmail will not be published requiredwebsite